=head1 NAME

Redis::Object - Use Redis with an ORMish interface

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Implements a scaled down ORM-like interface to access Redis as a database. If you want to use Redis as a cache, use L<Redis> instead.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    package MyRedisDatabase;
    
    use Moose;
    extends qw/ Redis::Object /;
    
    has tables => ( isa => 'ArrayRef[Str]', is => 'ro', default => sub { [ qw/
        SomeTable
    / ] } );
    
    package MyRedisDatabase::SomeTable;
    
    use Moose;
    extends / Redis::Object::Table /;
    
    has attrib1 => ( isa => 'Str', is => 'rw', default => 'Something' );
    has attrib2 => ( isa => 'Int', is => 'rw' );
    has attrib3 => ( isa => 'HashRef', is => 'rw' );
    has attrib4 => ( isa => 'ArrayRef', is => 'rw' );
    
    # init database
    my $db = MyRedisDatabase->new(
        server => '127.0.0.1:6379'
    );
    
    # create item
    my $item = $db->create( SomeTable => {
        attrib1 => "Hello",
        attrib2 => 123,
        attrib3 => { something => "serializeable" },
        attrib4 => [ 1..99 ]
    } );
    print "Created ". $item->id;
    
    # fetch item by id
    my $item = $db->find( SomeTable => $id );
    print $item->attrib1. "\n";
    
    # search items
    my $result = $db->search( SomeTable => {
        attrib1 => "Hello",
        attrib2 => 123
    } );
    while( my $item = $result->next ) {
        print "Found ". $item->id. "\n";
    }
    
    # update item
    $item->attrib1( "bla" );
    $db->update( $item, {
        attrib2 => 333
    } );

=head1 YOU SHOULD KNOW

=head2 Searching / Sorting

Redis is more than a simple key-value store - but it is no relational database, by any means. So limit your expectations towards complex searching or sorting.

This interface implements searching by primary key (an integer ID, which is automatically assigened to each "row" in the database), searching
indexed String values with compare- and prefix-search. All search capability aside from this results in a full "table" scan.

=head2 Indices

This interface allows you to define certain columes as indexed. Those columes should always be strings - not numbers, nor even more complex data strucutres. Those strings you can search with wildcars, such as "word*" or "w*rd*"

=head2 Structure

This interface will store your instances, represented by L<Redis::Object::Table>-objects, in a distinct strucuture. Do not try to use this interface with pre-existing data!

The structure relates to the L<Moose> attributes of your classes. Assuming the following table-class:

    package MyDB::MyTable;
    
    use Moose;
    with qw/ Redis::Object::Table /;
    
    has somekey => ( isa => "Str", is => "rw", required => 1 );
    has otherkey => ( isa => "Int", is => "rw", required => 1 );
    
    sub INDEX_ATTRIBUTES { qw/ somekey / }

The resulting "rows" would look something like this

    # contains the an ID timestamp, used for certain lookups
    mytable:1:_
    
    # contains the values of both attributres
    mytable:1:somekey
    mytable:1:otherkey
    
    # indexed key "somekey" for fast lookup
    mytable:1:_:somekey:The_Value

There is also a special key/value per table, which contains an incrementing integer for the primary key

    mytable:_id


=cut